### [Linux Assembly HOWTO](http://www.tldp.org/HOWTO/Assembly-HOWTO/howtonot.html)

#### Caveats about GAS syntax

* Register names are prefixed with `%`(e.g. `%eax`). You can rest assured that there won't be collisions with the external C symbols
* Order or operands: source first, destination last(reverse of the Intel convention). `mov eax,edx` is `movl %edx,%eax`
* Instructions should be suffixed with operand size. `b` for 8-bit byte, `w` for 16-bit word, `l` for 32-bit long. GAS does not require strict AT&T syntax so it can be omitted and default to `l`
* Immediate operands are prefixed with `$`, e.g. `addl $5, %eax`
* Unprefixed operands stand for memory-contents. `movl $foo, %eax` puts the **address** of `foo` into eax, but `movl $foo, %eax`  puts the **contents** of memory address `foo` into eax
* Indexing or indirection is done by enclosing the index register or indirection memory cell address in `()`. `testb $0x80, 17(%ebp` means testing the high bit of the byte value at offset 17 from the cell pointed to by %ebp.

#### Assembly in GCC

* 32-bit arguments are pushed down stack in **reverse syntactic order** (accessed/popped in the right order)
* `%ebp`, `%esi`, `%edi`, `%ebx` are callee-saved, other registers are caller-saved
* Use `%eax` to hold the 32-bit result, `%edx:%eax` for 64-bit results.
* Linux a.out GCC prepends `_` to every symbol, while Linux ELF GCC does not
* Use something like `asm("bar")` after a symbol in C code to make sure it will be called in assembly as `bar`

#### About direct linux syscalls

* That is, invoking syscalls directly instead of using libc
  * Note that in most cases, libc just does some checks, then calls the kernel, and then sets the errno
  * Since Linux and libc aim to be POSIX-compliant, most libc calls will match the real kernel system calls exactly anyway
  * GNU libc is becoming slower and more memory-hungry
* Pros
  * Smallest possible size(separate executable)
  * Faster(static binaries instead of shared libraries)
  * Full controll
  * No pollution of libc/C calling conventions
  * No worrying of libc upgrades or crashes
* Cons
  * If other programs use libc, you will waste your memory
  * Duplicated implementations
  * Not necessarily the best way to save memory(e.g. interpreter + `#!` instead of multiple binaries)
  * Reinventing the wheels(esp. section 3 of the manual)
  * Can't use stuff like zlibc
  * The overhead of libc is usually ridiculously small compared to the cost of a system call. You should worry more about the usuage of system calls instead of the wrappers.
  * On micro-kernel versions of Linux, the libc API is much faster
* Advices
  * Why not just use C and make it portable?
  * Grok the source of libc, and see if you can actually do better
* How
  1. Put the parameters in `ebx`(1st argument), `ecx`(2nd), `edx`, `esi`, `edi`, `ebp`. For GCC usually you need to put them in reverse order(e.g. `edx` -> `ecx` -> `ebx`)(for MIPS you won't).
  2. Put the `__NR_` syscallname number(from `asm/unistd.h`) in `eax`
  3.  `int 0x80`
* The result is returned in `eax`(negative is error, that's what goes into `errno`)
* Assembly them into `.o` then use the linker to produce the executable
