### [How are zlib, gzip and Zip related? What do they have in common and how are they different?](http://stackoverflow.com/questions/20762094/how-are-zlib-gzip-and-zip-related-what-do-they-have-in-common-and-how-are-they/20765054#20765054)

* `.zip` is a file format that can store files and folders with lossless compression. It usually use the Deflate compression method.
* `.gz` is a format based on Deflate compression. It is for compressing **single files** and usually used after packing the files with `tar` to make a compressed archive format `.tar.gz`
* To get one file out of a zip archive, you only need to decompress that file. To get one file out of a `.tar.gz` archive, you will have to decompress the whole tarball(but you don't have to if it's a `.gz.tar` archive).
* If you are compressing multiple files, gzip will produce a smaller archive since it can take advantage of redundancy across files, especially tons of small files.
* `zlib` is a library that provides deflate compression and depression code
* Zip: open format with open spec
  * Stores individually compressed files and the directory structure, both can be optionally encrypted
* History
  * First implementation: **PKZIP**, shareware
  * 1990s: Info-ZIP group, portable, free, open source implementations `zip` and `unzip`
  * Early 90's, `gzip` was derived from the Info-ZIP utilities to replace `compress` to avoid dispute of patents
  * Mid 90's: `.gif` had patent problems, so PNG is developed to losslessly compress images. It also uses the Deflate format. **zlib** was adapted from the gzip code to provide the compression and decompression code for libpng and other applications.
* What about `tar`
  * During the day of `compress`, it was common to use `tar` to create a archive of files, their attributes and their directory structures, and then pipe to output(a single file) to `compress`. This is carried forward to the gzip world.
* Zlib provides three types of wrapping around the deflate streams
  * No wrapping(i.e. raw deflate): used by programs that read and write `.zip`, since zip itself wraps around the delfate compressed data
  * zlib wrapping: more compact and faster integrity check, used in PNG data blocks
  * gzip wrapping: provides gzip routines
