## Learning Modern 3D Graphics Programming

[Reddit](http://www.reddit.com/r/programming/comments/muoof/learning_modern_3d_graphics_programming/)

### CH1 Basics

#### Graphics and Rendering
* In rasterizers, all objects that you see are **empty shells**. All of these shells are made of triangles(some might use planar quadrilaterals).
  * Why triangles? Because the lines are guaranteed to be on the **same plane**.
* Objects are made out of adjacent triangles that define the outer surface of the object -- mesh/model/geometry.
* Pipeline: triangles in, 2D image(pixels) out.
  * One triangle at a time, in a specific order.
  * Different triangles, different phases, one after another. Hence it is a pipeline.
* The order in which triangles and the various meshes are submitted to the rasterizer can affect its output.
* OpenGL is an API for **accessing a hardware-based rasterizer

#### Pipeline
* Clipping & clip coordinates
  * Volume - clip space, clip coordinates
  * (x, y, z, w) for clip coordinates.
  * w is the extent of clip space, which ranges in [-W, W]
  * Clipping - transform triangles partially outside of the clip space into smaller triangles entirely within the space
* Normalized device coordinates
  * Divide x, y, z by w
  * [-1, 1]
* Window coordinates
  * Bounds depends of the size of the viewport
  * z in [0, 1], vertices with z > 1 will not be seen
* Scan Conversion
  * A triangle will produce a fragment for every pixel sample that is within the 2D area of the triangle
  * OpenGL guarentees that triangles sharing an edge will not have gaps
  * Result: a sequence of fragments that cover the shape of the triangle
  * Fragments are associated with data containig 2D location of the fragment in window coordinates, as well as the Z position of the fragment(depth). 
* Fragment Processing
  * Takes a fragment, generate one or more color values and a single depth value
  * Fragments of the same triangle must be processed together
* Fragment Writing
  * Colors and depth might be combined with the current color of the image. Fragments are not necessarily all turrned into pixels

## Browsers

### [DOM Attributes now on the prototype chain](http://updates.html5rocks.com/2015/04/DOM-attributes-now-on-the-prototype)

* Now Chrome, IE and Firefox behaves the same
* Helps to implement getters/setters
* Polyfill

#### Changes

1. `hasOwnProperty` on DOM object

  ```javascript
  div.hasOwnProperty("isContentEditable");
  ```
  returns `false` now, but

  ```javascript
  HTMLElement.prototype.hasOwnProperty("isContentEditable");
  ```
  returns `true`. It is recommended to use:

  ```javascript
  if("isContentEditable" in div) {
    //...
  }
  ```
2. `Object.getOwnPropertyDescriptor` will only work on DOM object prototypes, not on DOM obejct instances
3. Since `JSON.stringify` doesn't serialize properties on the prototype, `JSON.stringify(domObject)` will no longer contain DOM properties(most of the time this should be `"{}"`). You can use for-in loop to do deep copy and serialize it.
4. Writing to read-only properties in strict mode will throw an error

### [How do browsers implement font fallback](http://stackoverflow.com/questions/29241764/how-do-web-browsers-implement-font-fallback)

* Text engines in browsers uses CMAP table and subtables or GSUB rules to determine if a codepoint corresponds to a glyph in a given font.
* If this font has no glyph for a codepoint, the browser will look into the next font in list (by CSS spec).
* If there is no glyph for it whatsoever, the browser will display
  1. `.notdef` outline defined as glyph id 0, i.e. the empty box
  2. or a glyph it grabbed from some other font
* CSS spec dosens't specify how the fallback algorithm should be and doesn't define any final fallback(like the `.notdef` empty box). It's up to the browsers.

### [Fixing the scrollTop bug](https://dev.opera.com/articles/fixing-the-scrolltop-bug/)

UA sniffing is evil...Now Edge is copying the bug of WebKit. Man, this is really screwed up.

It seems that the least harmful way to solve this incompatibility problem for now is

```javascript
function getViewportScroll() {
  return document.documentElement.scrollTop || document.body.scrollTop;
}
```
or

```javascript
function getViewportScroll() {
  return document.documentElement.scrollTop + document.body.scrollTop;
}
```
and 

```javascript
function setViewportScroll(y) {
  document.documentElement.scrollTop = y;
  document.body.scrollTop = y;
}
```

## Books

[The little book about OS development](http://littleosbook.github.io/)

## ES6

### [ES6 In Depth: Rest parameters and defaults](https://hacks.mozilla.org/2015/05/es6-in-depth-rest-parameters-and-defaults/)

* Default value expressions are evaluated at function call times(**unlike python**)
* Passing `undefined` will result in arguments with the default value
* Default argument can come before normal arguments(**unlike python**). Normal argument(like `b` in `(a=5,b)`) are equivalent to default arguments with `undefined` as its default value(`a=5, b=undefined`)
* `arguments` are optimization killers. Check [this](https://github.com/petkaantonov/bluebird/wiki/Optimization-killers#3-managing-arguments) out.

## Web Audio API

Wrote [this demo](http://joyeecheung.github.io/frontend-utils-and-demos/new-api/AnalyserNode/) for [this answer](http://www.zhihu.com/question/30507500/answer/48580618). It's super fun!

And found [this website](http://freemusicarchive.org/) which has tons of Common Creative Liscensed audio. Useful for building demos.