## Vue and D3

### Vue event with d3 update

* Avoid stack overflow by seperating updates internal to a D3 component and updates related to other Vue components. Then in the boundary component, update the D3 component by only doing registered internal updates, then disptach events to notify other Vue components to update themselves.

### Optimization

* Avoid forcing relayout by caching bounding rect. This can significantly improve the performace.

## JS engine

## [ChakraCore](https://github.com/sethgaurav/JSConf-LastCall/blob/master/Slides-ChakraCore-JSConfLastCall.pdf)

* Time-travel debugger -- can step to previous statement/callback/promise. That looks awesome!
* Mikeal showed up, but don't know what he said since there's no video :(

#### Case study

* Youtube html5player.js
  * Link JIT'ed functions via RBP chains instead of stack walk, 40% - 50% better page load times for specific sites
* Cortana
  * Runs across a range of device profiles
  * Need small **memory footprint**
  * **Bailout info/local offsets** is too heavy: 15MB JIT code/50MB data like this
  * Optimize by sharing & tightly packing them
  * Results: 50MB -> 18MB
* Roadmap
  * PR to Node.js mainline
  * Interoperable debugging support
  * Time travel debugging
  * Cross platform support

### [People on the Edge - Gaurav Seth](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BwKiixPeNEk)

* Popularity promotes priority. If you want ES6 features get optimized in browsers, use them.
* At least two implementations are required to approve a new feature
