## Self: the power of simplicity

### Methods and Closures

* In Self, a closure = an object containing an **environment link** + a method named `value`, `value:`, `value:With`
* In self, methods are objects, and those objects are **prototypes of activiation records**. The local variables are allocated by reserving slots for them in these prototypes, thus the local variables can be private methods and closures. When the methods are invoked, these prototypes will be cloned to create the activation records.
* Methods contain `parent` environment links to its enclosing closure or scope. Lookup proceeds to outer scopes by following these links.
* Parent links of ordinary objects are their prototypes' parent links. Parent links of methods' activation records are the **message recievers**, so the scope of methods can be embedded in the recievers.
* The environment links of blocks is set to the enclosing activation records of where they are created, **when they are created**(thus the lexical scope). When the block is activated, its method's parent link will be set from the block's environment link.
* The message lookup starts with the current activation record, the reciever of a message is the same as the current reciever

### Direction

* **Behaviorism**: an object is what it does.
* **Computation viewed as refinement**
  * Method activation can be viewed as the creation of a **short-lived refinement of the receiver**(since their parents are the receiver).
  * Block (closure) activation can be viewed as the creation of a **refinement of the activation record for the enclosing context scope**
  * A twist would be using a method to return a clone of the prototypical object with shared behaviors, although at the point of writing Self didn't choose this path(I think this is more like what JS chose)
* Parents viewed as shared parts

### Syntax

* Slot list syntax(enclosed in `||`, items separated with trailable `.`)
  * `| x. |`denotes two slots: `x` which is initialized to `nil`, `x:` which is initialized to the assignment primitive(`<-`)
  * `| tally <- 0 |` denotes two slots: `tally` which is initialized to `0`, `tally:` which is initialized to the assignment primitive(`<-`)
  * `| x = 0 |` denotes one slot: `x` which is initialized to `0`. It's read-only since it doesn't have assignment primitive
  * `| :arg |` denotes two slots, and it's intended to be used to denote arguments of methods
* Objects are enclosed in `()`, includes slots and blocks(methods inclused in `[]`)
* Differ from Smalltalk
  * Receiver is ommited when it's `self`
  * Return value of a method is the result of the last expression
  * Keyword messages associate from right to left
  * Keywords has cases(lower camel)
