## npm

### [require-from-twitter](https://gist.github.com/rauchg/5b032c2c2166e4e36713#gistcomment-1732509)

This is hilarious. Doesn't work in mainland China though.

### [Could Rust have a left-pad incident?](http://edunham.net/2016/03/24/could_rust_have_a_left_pad_incident.html)

So, no, cargo is safe.

I think npm should also put a restriction on unpublishing.

### [A discussion about the breaking of the Internet](https://medium.com/@mproberts/a-discussion-about-the-breaking-of-the-internet-3d4d2a83aa4d#.itcev29dy)

> We don’t mean to be a dick about it, but it’s a registered Trademark in most countries around the world and if you actually release an open source project called kik, our trademark lawyers are going to be banging on your door and taking down your accounts and stuff like that — and we’d have no choice but to do all that because you have to enforce trademarks or you lose them.

Trademark laws sucks and oh yes, you are d*cks.

### [NPM & left-pad: Have We Forgotten How To Program?](http://www.haneycodes.net/npm-left-pad-have-we-forgotten-how-to-program/)

I don't approve of most of his points..

>  It feels to me as if the entire job of an NPM-participating developer is writing the smallest amount of code possible to string existing library calls together in order to create something new that functions uniquely for their personal or business need.

Well yes, and that's the goal of the whole software engineering society. There's nothing wrong about that. Saying that people should spend more time on writing code for solved problems instead of writing code that actually brings innovation is really absurd.

And stackoverflow questions don't make good interview questions either, IMHO. What's worse: yanking code from stackoverflow, which is unlikely to have unit tests, or getting code from a package manager, where the code is more likely to have unit tests and documentation, and can be shared by other modules, which makes the tree-shaking more efficient?

That said, those crazy one-liner packages are not a good sign. I don't think the philosiphy of small modules is wrong(as argued in [this](https://github.com/sindresorhus/ama/issues/10#issuecomment-117766328)). Besides, the concept of small modules and the form of packages are not the same thing. The question is, how small is small enough? There should be a neutral ground for modules that are too trivial to be in the form of a package, but not suitable to be in the standard. May be a standard for a core library consist of small modules that can be loaded indivisually(sounds like lodash though)? And it needs to be separated from the language standard and not be in the engines by default, since you can't regret about anything once you put it out on the Web. Then Node or any other project that involves JS can include them by default, since there projects can make breaking changes.

And I think we need something better than npm download statistics to rate modules. Something like the IBM API harmony...but it's a lot of work.
