## Angular

### Directives

* In Angular, **the only place where an application should access the DOM** is within directives.
  * DOM access are hard to test.
  * If you need to access the DOM directly, you should write a custom directive.
* Directives are **markers** on a DOM element (e.g. attribute, element name, comment, CSS class) that tell `$compile` to **attach a specified behavior** to that DOM element (e.g. via event listeners), or even to **transform** the DOM element and its children.
* When Angular bootstraps your application, the HTML compiler **traverses the DOM** matching directives against the DOM elements.


### Controllers

* The purpose of controllers is to **expose variables and functionality to expressions and directives**.
* The view is just a projection of the model, so **the controller is completely separated from the view and unaware of it**. This makes it easier to test your controllers.
* Attaching controllers with `ng-controller` will create a new scope, which can be injected into the controller constructor function.
* Controller can be used to initialize `$scope`(e.g. `$scope.something = 'init'`) and add behaviors(e.g. `$scope.something = function() {...}`) to `$scope`. It only contains **business logic**.
* Controllers should not
  * manipulate the DOM, or contain presentation logic(use data binding and directives for that)
  * format input(use angular form controls in HTML)
  * filter output(use filters)
  * share code/state across controllers(use services)
  * manage life-cycle of other components e.g. create service instance


### Services

* Move **view-independent logic** from the controller into a service when your application gets too big
* They typically connect to the network to load/save data
* **Lazy instantiation**: Angular only instantiates a service when an application component depends on it
* **Singletons** the service factory only generates one instance, and it will be referenced by all components that depend on it.
* Created via `module.factory()`, or `$provide`:

  ```javascript
  angular.module("moduleA", [])
         .config("$provide", function($provide) {
            $provide.factory("serviceA", function() {
              // return...
            });
         });
  ```

### Dependency Injection

```js
// controller
angular.module("moduleA", ["moduleB"])
       .controller("controllerA", ["serviceA", "serviceB", function(serviceA, serviceB) {
          // ...
        }])
       .factory("serviceA", ["someService", function(someService) {
          // return something...
        }]);

// service
angular.module("moduleB", [])
       .factory("serviceB", function() {
          // return something...
        });
```