## Frontend

### [AngularJS’ Internals In Depth](http://www.smashingmagazine.com/2015/01/angularjs-internals-in-depth/)

* Directives should interact with the DOM. Otherwise you should consider about services.

#### Scopes

* Abstraction of communication between directives and the OM
* Also exists in the controllers
* Plain old JavaScript objects(POJO)
* Internal properties prefixed with `$` or `$$`. `$$` are more about the details.
* Associated with an element and all its children, but an element is not necessarily directly associated with a scope
* Element are assigned a scope by:
  * Adding a controller/directive to an element
  * Inheriting from its parent
  * Note if the element isn't inside an `ng-app` then it **doesn't belong to a scope**!
* To access an element's scope: `angular.element(domElement).scope()`(if you are using jQuery, `$(domElement).scope()` works too)

#### Scope Internals

* `$id`, `$root`, `$parent`(`null` if `scope == scope.$root`)
* Using `$parent` introduces coupling. You can use e.g. events for communication instead.

#### Events

* `$on(event, fn)`, `$emit(event, args)`(will trigger on the current scope, parent scopes, and the root scope), `$broadcast(event, args)`(will trigger on the current scope and children scopes)
* It's a good idea to **namespace** your scopes like `foo.bar`
* Events are most useful when you actually need to **bridge** the gap between two (or more) scopes and other factors aren't as important
* Anti-patterns: Sometimes services are better(note that **services should be independent from views**). And if you need to help children to communicate with parents, events rarely are the way to go.
* Communication between siblings
  * Broadcast with `$rootScope.$broadcast`, listen with `$scope.$on`
  * If they only communicate through `$rootScope`, a better solution is `$rootScope.$emit` and `$rootScope.$on` so it won't waste time on looping children of `$rootScope` that won't listen for the event.

#### Digest

* `$digest()`(dirty checking), `$$phase`(one of `[null, '$apply', '$digest']`)
* `scope.$digest` recursively digests changes in a scope and its children
* Processes all of the watchers of the current scope and its children. Because watchers' listeners can change the model, which in turn trigger the watcher's listener, so there is a possibility for an **infinite loop**.
* Generally you don't call `$digest` yourself. You call `$apply()` which force a `$digest()`
* Triggered by `$apply()`, `$timeout()`, directives, .etc.
* Digest fire your watchers, and watchers update your UI.

#### Watchers

* `$watch(watchExp, listener, objectEquality)`, `$watchCollection(obj, listener)`, `$$watchers`(all watchers associated with the scope)
* Angular needs help to trigger the watchers(and update the data) properly.
* Each `ng-bind` directive created a watcher on the property
* You can use `$digest()` to remind Angular of updating the values(e.g. in `setTimeout`, though actually you should've used `$timeout()`)
* `$apply(expr)` parses and evaluates an expression and then executes the `$digest` loop on `$rootScope`(so every child scope will be updated too). It's almost always better thant `$digest()` unless you need to tune the performance manually

