## Security

### Session Fixation

#### How it's done

* Typical case: **session id accepted via query string/POST data**
* The attacker trick the victim into visiting the URL/sending the request that will **set his session id into a specified one**. Then the attacker use this specified session id to do whatever he wants.
  * **It doesn't matter if the session id is raw or generated**. What's important is that the attacker can have a **valid** session id at his disposal.
  * The attacker can also set the session id through cookies by getting the victim visiting an untrusted subdomain.

#### Defense in Depth

1. Store the session properly
  * Don't use GET/POST variables to accept session id.
  * **Cookies** is a more reasonable choice. If you have HTTPS and enough support, consider **SSL/TLS session identifier**.
    * Cookies are shared between tabs and popups with the same domain. If you want separate sessions for different tabs, use different domains.
2. Generation
  * Use server-generated SIDs.
  * **Change the session ID when users login**. And ask the user to login for confirmation of sensitive actions.
    * Then, when the victim visit the link with the fixed session id, they will need to login, and that will change the session id.
    * This is also useful for phishing and CSRF.
  * Regenerate SID on each request
    * How
      1. Get `OLD_SID` from HTTP request
      2. If there is no such thing or there isn't any session matching `SID=OLD_SID`, create a new session by generating a `NEW_SID` with a secure random number generator
      3. Update your DB so that `SID=OLD_SID` is invalid and `SID=NEW_SID` is valid
      4. Transmit `NEW_SID` to the client
    * Problems
      * Plugins can cause logouts, multiple sessions, etc.
      * The "back" button is unusable
3. Additional verification
  * Timeout old SIDs
  * Destroy session if the `Referrer` is suspicious
  * Verify that additional information(e.g. IP, user agent) is **consistent** throughout session
4. Let the user help
  * Provide logout for users
