### What am I thinking when I'am writing C/C++

If I'm writing C

* I'll use raw pointers and arrays
* I'll implement a lot of containers and algorithms
* I'll use function pointers
* I'll frequently manage the memory myself
* I'll use `malloc` and free and `realloc` and break type safety
* I'll use macros to do metaprogramming and generic programming, albeit a limited one
* I'll use `struct`s like they are aggregates
* When I encounter something wrong, I'll return an error code
* When I need to return a large amount of data, I pass a pointer to a function
* I usually thinks procedure-oriented
* I uses pointers for I/O
* I uses explicit namespaces(prefix the variables)
* In my for-loop usually are indices and pointers

If I'm writing C++

* I'll use smart pointers, references, iterators and vectors
* I'll use STL
* I'll use functors, or the more powerful lambda functions
* I'll delegate tons of memory management works to RAII and smart pointers
* I'll use new and delete and doRAII with constructors and destructors
* I'll use templates, concepts, `constexpr` to do metaprogramming and generic programming, which is much more powerful
* I'll have classes, and I'll have encapsulation, polymorphism, inheritance
* When I encounter something wrong, I'll throw an exception
* When I need to return a large amount of data, I use move semantics, or rely on RVO
* I can think object-oriented, or functional, or generic, etc.
* I use streams for I/O
* I use the real namespace
* In my for-loop, I use `auto` :)

### When should `static_cast`, `dynamic_cast`, `const_cast` and `reinterpret_cast` be used?

* Use `dynamic_cast` for converting pointers/references within an inheritance hierarchy.
* Use `static_cast` for ordinary type conversions(when it is reasonable e.g. float to int).
* Use `reinterpret_cast` for low-level reinterpreting of bit patterns. Use with extreme caution.
* Use `const_cast` for casting away const/volatile. Avoid this unless you are stuck using a const-incorrect API.

### TCP congestion control

1. Slow start: power of 2
2. Congestion avoidance: when a packet loss happened
  * Tahoe
    * Halve the slow start threshold
    * Set congestion window to 1MSS
    * Enter slow start
  * Reno
    * Halve the slow start threshold(like Tahoe)
    * Set congestion window to half of the previous slow start threshold(unlink Tahoe)
    * Enter fast recovery(retransmit, if it is lost again, then go back to slow start)
3. When the ACK times out, Reno is the same as Tahoe
