## JS Engine

### [A tour of V8: full compiler](http://jayconrod.com/posts/51/a-tour-of-v8-full-compiler)

#### High level architecture

* V8 has a full compiler and an optimizing compiler. There's no interpreter, everything will be compiled to machine code.
* Full compiler compiles JS code without any transformation/optimization. It's job is to make the code available to run as quickly as possible, so the web pages can load quickly.
* The optimizing compiler(Crankshaft) will optimize hot functions selected by the profiler
* Additional notes(not in this article)
  * V8 now has multiple threads for these. The main thread does compilation and execution, and there is another one just for compilation. Profiler is on another, and there are a few more for GC.
  * The main thread will stop execution when doing Crankshaft optimizations
  * Optimization is done on the Hydrogen(a static-single assignment representation of the control flow graph)
  * Hydrogen will be translated into the low-level Lithium(platform-dependent), this is where the register allocation is done
  * Lithium will then be translated into machine code

#### Why no bytecode?

* Native compilation is not that more expensive than bytecode compilation.
* You still need to go through parsing, scope analysis(for local variables, content variables(closures), global properties).
* The only difference is that during code generation, you generate machine code(platform-specific) instead of bytecode(platform-independent)
* In V8 we just skip the translation from bytecode to machine code. This simplifies transitions between unoptimized and optimized code!(easier for OSR)

> In general, bytecode is useful in situations where you can do some of the compiler's work **ahead of time**

#### Inline caches: accelerating unoptimized code

* Operations in ES are too complicated(due to type coersion, prototypes, etc.)
* IC: a function with multiple possible implementations(usually generated on the fly)
* The full compiler uses ICs to implement load/store/call/binary op/unary op/comparison/implicit `ToBoolean`
* Stub: implementation of an IC
  * Like functions, but don't necessarily set up a stack frame/follow the function call convention
  * Usually generated on the fly
  * Can be cached and reused by ICs
  * Contains optimized code for operations that some IC has encountered before(so it's a *cache*)
  * If the type misses, the C++ runtime code will be called instead. Then it will generate a new stub to replace it.
* IC starts in the *uninitialized* state, where the stub doesn't handle any cases. When it's called it will generate a new stub that handle the case and replace the old stub with it(this is how hidden classes are created too(in-object load stubs!)).
  * Uninitialized ->(first call/cache miss) -> monomorphic -> (cache miss) -> megamorphic
