## C++

### [CppCon 2014: Herb Sutter "Back to the Basics! Essentials of Modern C++ Style"](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xnqTKD8uD64)

#### Focus on defaults

* It's not dumbing the language down. It's about only do things otherwise when you have a good reason to do so. Don't optimize prematurely & don't overthink.
* Optimal by default v.s. good(but not optimal) performance by default
* Clear code is more important than optimal code. You don't always need to open the hood.

#### Range For

* If you need to traverse every element in the collection, prefer range-for with `auto &` instead of iterators
* `for (e: c)` are coming!

#### When to use smart pointers

* Unique pointers are fairly cheap. Don't use owning *, `new` or `delete`. Use `make_unique` by default and `make_shared` if necessary, and you don't need to `delete` anymore.

#### When not to use smart pointers

* Non-owning references/pointers(lifetime controlled by callers) are still great!

  ```cpp
  void f(widget &w) {
    use(w);
  }

  void g(widget *w) {
    if (w) use(*w);
  }
  ```
  In modern C++, you pass them through `*smart_pointer` or `smart_pointer.get()`, but there's nothing wrong with the old pattern!
* If you are not transferring ownership, just use the good old references/pointers for parameters, because **the callee shouldn't care about if that thing is shared or unique anyway**.
* Anti-pattern: when you don't use the smart pointer properly:

  ```cpp
  void f(refcnt_ptr<T> &w) {
    use(*w);  // why on earth do you pass that reference when it will be counted?
  }
  void f(refcnt_ptr<T> w) {
    use(*w);  // pass-by-value?!
    // You'll be incrementing the reference with every call, doesn't it hurt?
  }
  ```
* Anti-pattern: copy reference counted pointers in loops

  ```cpp
  refcnt_ptr<T> w = ...;
  for (...) {
    auto w2 = w;  // WTF?!
    use(w2);
  }
  ```
* FB RocksDB improve 4x by changing pass-by-value `shared_ptr` to raw pointers/references

#### Ownership

* Reference counted smart pointers are about **managing owned object's lifetime**. Only copy/assign them when you need to manipulate the ownership!
* People say smart pointers/vectors hurt performance because they are bitten by code that **pass-by-value** or **copy/assign in loops** with them, when they don't even intend to manipulate their ownerships.

#### How to use `unique_ptr`

* It's OK to **return `unique_ptr`** in factories(remember to use `make_unique` for optimization)
* It't OK to **pass `unique_ptr` by value** when you are about to consumes them.
* If you *will* or *might* change where a `unique_ptr` points to, it's OK to **pass it by reference**.
* It's usually **not right** to pass `const unique_ptr<widget> &`. You should just pass a `const widget &`

#### How to use `shared_ptr`

* It't OK to **eturn a `shared_ptr`** in factories(remember to use `make_shared` for optimization) when you know it will be shared.
* If you want to share a `shared_ptr`(add one more reference count) to a function, you can **pass it by value**.
* If you *will* or *might* change where a `unique_ptr` points to, it's OK to **pass it by reference**.
* If you *might* share a `shared_ptr`, it's OK to pass `const shared_ptr<widget> &`

#### Pitfalls

Don't dereference a non-local, possibly aliased reference-counted pointer, because it could be released elsewhere.

```cpp
shared_ptr<widget> g_p; // global or aliased local

void f(widget &w) {
  g();
  use(w);
}

void g() {
  g_p = ... // reseat it
}

void my_code() {
  f(*g_p); // WARNING! g() might reseat `g_p`, releasing it, and then f() will dereference it with `use(w)`
  // or
  g_p->foo();
}
```

How to do it properly? Pin it with an unaliased local copy so you can be sure it won't be released when dereferencing it. **When you need to dereference a global smart pointer, copy it locally first**.

```cpp
void my_code() {
  auto pin = g_p;  // +1 ref count!
  f(*pin);  // now pin is local
  // or
  pin->foo();
}
```

#### Principles

1. Never pass smart pointers(by value/reference) unless you want to manipulate its ownership
2. Use `unique_ptr` for ownership whenever possible, even when you don't know if it will be shared
  * free, safe, declarative, no ref count headaches
3. Else use `make_shared` up front when you know it will be shared. Don't dereference global `shared_ptr`, make a local copy before you do that.

#### Don't be scared by `auto`

* A good IDE(even emacs) can help you see the actual type when you are coding, so don't be afraid of losing track of the types.
* `auto` makes you **focus on interfaces**, not implementations
* Templates/temporaries already ignore actual types
* With deduction, you always get the exact right type without accidentally changing modifiers/constness or getting **implicit conversions**
* Less typing LOL
* No accidental narrowing on literals(e.g. `42.0f`, `42ul`)
* The signatures will be on the right. Most of the times `auto` force you to put any possible conversions explicitly **on the right hand side**. If you put it on the left hand side(usually it's what you do when you don't use `auto`), people will keep NOT seeing it.
* `=` doesn't always mean copy/assignment in C++. That's a quirk in the standard -- it could mean initialization.
* If you do `auto x = something`, something will be moved instead of copied. But if it's not movable, there could be an error(and remember, containers are expensive to move).

So, no implicit conversions/temporaries, no narrowing, no uninitialized variables!

### RVO and Move semantics

#### In C++ 98

* Cheap costs(e.g. a few `int`s) to copy: return-by-value and pass-by-value
* Moderate costs(e.g. ~1KB contiguous)/unknown costs to copy: rely on RVO, pass by const references
* Expensive to copy(e.g. vectors, `BigPOD[]`): use references all the way through

#### Modern C++

* For cheap costs/impossible to copy(e.g. `unique_ptr`, return-by-value and pass-by-value(will trigger move semantics if necessary)
* For moderate costs/cheap to move/unknown costs(e.g. `vector`, `array<vector>`, `BigPOD`), rely on RVO, pass by const references
* Expensive to move(e.g. `BigPOD[]`, `array<BigPOD>`), use references all the way through

So in more cases you just need RVO and const references.

* If you want to optimize for rvalues, add an overload for `&&`
