## DOCTYPES/quirks mode

### What is a DOCTYPE

DOCTYPEs tell the browser "what I am". It's like *shebang* for markups, so it comes at the beginning of the document. Different versions of XML, XHTML and HTML have different DOCTYPEs.

### What is quirks mode

In the early days of the Web, implementations came before W3C specifications. To avoid breaking the Web, browsers(mainly IE and Netscape Navigator/Firefox) keep **old behaviors** for legacy sites, and this is triggered by invalid/no/ancient DOCTYPEs. This mode of behaviors is called quirks mode.

Note that different browsers have different quirks modes, since they have different histories. IE9- imitates IE5.5 in quirks mode, but starting from IE10, they try to be interoperable with quirks modes of other browsers instead.

Quirks mode are [being standardized](https://quirks.spec.whatwg.org/) by WHATWG.

### Are there any other modes?

Generally speaking, there are three modes in the wild: quirks mode, full standards mode, and almost standards mode. You can guess what they are by there names.

### Which DOCTYPE should I use?

The safest and simplest DOCTYPE, which is also recommened by HTML5 specification, is `<!DOCTYPE html>`. Even IE6 recognizes it and uses the most standard-compliant implementation for it.

There's usually no good reason to use any other DOCTYPE, and they might even trigger quirks mode if you are not being careful.

### Why should I know about quirks mode?

Quirks mode can trigger old behaviors, specifically, old CSS behaviors, that are usually not what you want. Examples are:

* IE box models: IE6+ will comply to the W3C box model in standards mode, and fall back to IE box model in quirks mode.
* Vertical alignment: Gecko-based browsers will align images to the baseline of the texts in standards mode, while align to the bottom of the containing box in quirks mode
* Table font inheiritance: browsers typically don't inherit fonts into tables in quirks mode, but they do in standards mode.

### What is almost standards mode

The only difference between full standards mode and the almost standards mode is: in almost standards mode, inline boxs containing no non-whitespace text and don't have margins/paddings/borders will not have `height` and `line-height`. In particular, a single `img` in a table cell will not contribute to the line height of that cell. This violates what CSS2.1 specifies.

Firefox, Safari, Chrome, Opera (since 7.5), IE8+ have this mode, while older browsers don't have it, since they just show the non-standard-compliant behavior in full standards mode.

IE calls it "strict mode", WHATWG calls it "limited quirks mode".

They are triggered by one of [these DOCTYPEs](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Gecko's_Almost_Standards_Mode).

### How do I know what mode I'm in?

`document.compatMode`:

1. `"BackCompat"` means quirks mode
2. `"CSS1Compat"` means full/almost standards mode


## Block elements & inline elements

### Blocks in CSS

* Block-level elements
  * Formatted visually as blocks
  * `display` values are `block`, `list-item`, `table`
* Block-level boxes
  * Prticipate in a *block formatting context*
  * Generates a *principle block-level box*(containing descendent boxes and gernerated content) and possibly additional boxes
* Block container box
  * Contains **only** block-level boxes or **only** inline-lvel boxes(establishes an *inline formatting context*)
* Block boxes
  * Block-level boxes that are also block containers

Block-level boxes are not necessarily block containers(e.g. table boxes, replaced elements), and vice versa. Block-level is about the context in which the box **participats**, while block container is about the context the box **establishes**.

These three terms are sometimes abbreviated as *block*.

### Inline in CSS

* Inline-level elements
  * Do not form new blocks
  * Content is distributed in lines
  * `display` values are `inline`, `inline-table`, `inline-block`
* Inline-level boxes
  * Participate in an *inline formatting context*
* Inline box
  * Inline-level boxes whose content also participates in its inline formatting context
  * e.g. a non-replaced element with `display: inline`
* Atomic inline-level boxes
  * Inline-level boxes that are not inline boxes i.e. their content doesn't participate in IFC.
  * e.g. replaced inline-level elements, inline-block elements, inline-table elements
  * Like a opaque box
  * Content will never be splitted like the inline boxes

### BFC

* Who establish it(inside):
  * Floats
  * Absolutely positioned elements
  * Block containers, including inline-blocks, table-cells, table-captions, that are not block boxes
  * Block boxes with `overflow` != `visible`
* Layout boxes vertically
* Margin collapsing
* Left outer edges of boxes touches the left edge of the containing block

### IFC

* Layout boxes horizontally
* Only horizontal margins/borders/paddings are respected
* Vertically alignment
  * Bottom/top
  * Baseline
* Line box
  * Rectangular area that contains the boxes that form a line
  * Width: determined by the containing block and floats
  * Height: determined by line height calculations
  * Stacked with no vertical seperation(unless specified elsewhere) and never overlap
