### [Expert to Expert - Erik Meijer and Lars Bak: Inside V8 - A Javascript Virtual Machine](https://channel9.msdn.com/Shows/Going+Deep/Expert-to-Expert-Erik-Meijer-and-Lars-Bak-Inside-V8-A-Javascript-Virtual-Machine)

* **For-in enumartion order**: The spec doesn't guarantee anything about the for-in order but by convention engines keep the creation order -- and that's a bummer because now the keys are not canonicalized(note. you have to do a bunch of tricks to reduce the amount of hidden classes, like Chakra)
* **delete**: Deletion results in class degeneration, which will create a setinel class and convert the backing store into a hash map
* **GC of hidden classes**: Constructors points to the initial hidden class, objects points to their corresponding hidden classes, everything is on the heap and unreachable hidden classes will be GC'ed
* **Closures**: simple implementation, the closure is minimized. `eval` is handled as a special case.
* **Prototype**: The ICs on the prototype chain is actively validated, **from the reciever to the holder**（no backward dependencies chains)
* **Type coersion**: Uncommon cases in type coersion is at the bottom of the generated code. When the prediction fails, it will go there(possibly call to the runtime system when things like `valueOf` are user-defined)
* **Overwriting components**: it's never intended to be that anyways(e.g. so much monkey patchable stuffs)
* The debugger is written in JavaScript and loaded on the fly. Watch out for getters and setters.
* **Minimal heap**: *Libraries* like `Date` are loaded on the fly too. They are snapshoted and serialized at start-up to be reused.
* v8 exposes **interceptors** so the C++ code in the browser can customize special lookup rules of DOM elements
* Stuffs like hidden classes are implementation details, so they are not exposed via any API
* It's ridiculous to implement JS in JS
  * You can't allocate memories, so you can only do function calls
  * You can't expose the pointers to JS as raw data
  * Slow
  * Bit manipulation in GC(e.g. for write barriers) and JIT is much more easier to do and optimize in C/C++
  * Bootstrapping is hard(unless you can have some kind of statically-typed version of the language first)
* JavaScript as an IR
  * It's what you got anyway
  * It's much more simpler to only generate native code
  * When making HotSpot you have to test a lot of combinations of all kinds of generated code, which costs a lot
  * Source code is **more compact** than bytecode anyway
  * It's much more **easier to parse and validate** source code than to validate bytecode(e.g. jumps, signature)!
  * Compared to C# -> MSIL -> x86, you have to do the validation twice even though the first two are somewhat isomorphic(if you have Reflector or something). But with JavaScript the first two are done as one block in the client
  * Altough bytecode is more suitable as a **well-defined** unified format to implement **debuggers** on, and if you can **describe activation states with it in a platform-independent way**(like in Java), it would be very useful, say, when you reificate you runtime structures back
* Multithreading
  * The libraries are not specificed as type-safe
  * No locks
  * Worker threads
