## Resume

Added styles for printers([commits](https://github.com/joyeecheung/resume/commit/69b72d72dcc23e6a5323ec88d04fbb42ea00d21b)). I could've use `@page` with something like `size: 210mm 297mm`, but the original styles wouldn't work...hmmm...(should've use `rem` from the start, but I was just totally misguided by Bootstrap back then). But yeah, Chrome does respect `@page`!

Tried to use [BrowserStack](http://dev.modern.ie/tools/screenshots/) to see how the responsive design works, turns out SamSung Galaxy S5 has a huge resolution(1080x1920) and it total wrecks the layout...can't find an elegant way to solve this right now(Most solutions just suggest to use some specific media queries to target it, but it just doesn't sound right). Safari on Mac has some wired issues too, I guess it's caused by user-agent styles, might try to add a reset/normalize.css later. All other browsers seems good.

## Ideas

Make a game/demo with WebGL for Drones? It sounds like fun!

* A drone mode and a victim mode...
* 10 levels, one for each song(Drill Sergent and JFK don't count)
* The music should be recorded via sound cards(option: just host it...hmm...but there are copyright issues) Keep track of the length for the songs, so you can pause it.
* Some can be just demos...
* Games candidate
  * Mercy: wake up in the same room every day and be forced to do something you don't want to. Some men in cloaks flashing by...
  * Reapers!!! A FPS just like in the MV :)
  * Handler: something that makes you feel that you're being manipulated
    * If you don't shoot person(and hear them scream and cry), you will get electrocuted and lose health(LOL)
  * Defector: a BIG escape
