## Python

Save an Ipython session with: `%save [filename] [line_start]-[line_end]`

## CV

### Digits detection/recognition

```python
import numpy as np
import cv2
from PIL import Image, ImageDraw


def detect(im):
    digit_cascade = cv2.CascadeClassifier('../asset/classifier/cascade.xml')
    digits = digit_cascade.detectMultiScale(gray)
    return digits


if __name__ == '__main__':
    img = cv2.imread('../asset/test/2.jpg')
    gray = cv2.cvtColor(img, cv2.COLOR_BGR2GRAY)
    im = Image.open('../asset/test/2.jpg')
    draw = draw = ImageDraw.Draw(im)
    digits = detect(img)
    for (x, y, w, h) in digits:
        draw.rectangle((x, y, x+w, y+h), outline=128)
    im.show()
```

[Use OpenCV SVM](http://docs.opencv.org/master/dd/d3b/tutorial_py_svm_opencv.html) to classify the detected regions.


## Highcharts

* Load jQuery and highcharts. HC has an automatic adapter for `$`.
* `$('selector').highcharts(options)` to kick it off
* Under the hood it uses SVG for plotting

### Options

* `tooltip.pointFormat` specifies text in the tooltip.

### Specify Data

Specify `series.data` with an array of objects.

1. Use an array. x will be the indices, y will be the value in the elements.
2. Use an array of two-element arrays.
3. Use an array with objects. Each object should have `name` and `y` for values. Advanced options(e.g. event handlers) are specified per-element too.

Note: The types of array elements can be mixed!

### Specify Tooltips

* `tooltip.headerFormat`, `tooltip.pointFormat`, `tooltip.footerFormat` accepts templates. Use `{variable}` for templating, HTML tags are allowed. Use `{series}` to access the series object(in `series` option), `{point}` to access the element object.
* `tooltip.formatter` accepts a function returning templates.

### Labels

* `plotOptions.[chartType].dataLabels.format` uses a template to specify the label text. Use `point` to access the data point(elements in `series.data`).

### Remove watermark

```js
credits: {
  enabled: false
}
```

## jQuery UI

### [Jquery UI with Jquery2?](http://www.reddit.com/r/jquery/comments/1wdhcs/jquery_ui_with_jquery2/)

> you can
The difference between 1.x and 2.x is browser support.
the API is the same between the two (starting at 1.9)

## jQuery

`$.map`:

```js
$.map(data, function(element, key) {
 
});
```

`$.each`:

```js
$.each(data, function(key, element) {
 
});
```
Notice the different orders of arguments. P.S. They both work on objects, not just arrays.
