## CSS

### Fixed, full-page background

```css
.stuff {
  background: url(images/bg.jpg) no-repeat center center fixed;
  background-size: cover;
}
```

## Exceptions

### [C++ FAQ: Exceptions](https://isocpp.org/wiki/faq/exceptions#why-not-exceptions)

* C++ exceptions are designed to support **error** handling
* `catch` and error only when you know you can handle it, usually translating it to another error or rethrowing it
* `throw` is not meant to be used
  * To signal coding errors(e.g. wrong parameters). This should be handled by `assert` or others.
    * But wouldn't that crash my process? Well, if there is a coding error, **just let it crash**!! You can leave a crash dump or some logs for yourself to debug later. These errors are, in fact, bugs. If you just let them get away with it, you will never be able to find them.
  * To be used to handle unexpected violation of an invariant of your component e.g. memory corruption, etc.
    * You are not God. your programs are very unlikely to have the ability to just, say, cure your memory corruption. Trying to solve the problems that you are not capable of solving, or that you don't have the knowledge to solve, will only make things worse. If you encounter conditions like these, just use `assert` or other mechanisum to terminate the program.
* `throw` is not meant to be used to get out of a loop or as a almighty `return`
* Note this is specific to C++. C++ implementations are optimized based on the assumption that exceptions are used for error handling(unlike, say, Java).
* Valid use cases: external problems that prevents execution
  * OOM, out of disk space
  * Invalid data received from another system
  * Things your user can handle


### [Google C++ guide](https://google.github.io/styleguide/cppguide.html#Exceptions)

* Cons
  * You need to examine all transitive callers, they must either make at least tbe basic exception safety guarantee, or never catch the exception
  * They makes the control flow more difficult to reason about
  * Exception safety requires both RAII and different coding practices e.g. you need to isolate the "commit" phase, and **exception-safe code is hard to write**
  * Increased compile time and address-space pressure
  * Once they are allowed, they can be easily be abused e.g. throwing exceptions on invaid user input(you can just reprompt for another one)
* All in all, Google chose not to use them because they don't worth the cost(for Google)

### [Easing Into Functional Error Handling in Scala](http://longcao.org/2015/06/15/easing-into-functional-error-handling-in-scala)

* Unlike Java, Scala only has unchecked exceptions, which violates the referential transparency: that an expression can be replaced with its value without changing prior behavior
* Throwing exceptions breaks the functional purity because the function doesn't always return the same type now.
* Going the other way allows us to use monadic composition and Scala's for comprehension sugar(the logic will short circuit to the error handling code i.e. biasing)
* Solution: `Option[T]`, `None`, and `Some(t)`
* Solution: `Try`, `Try[T]`, `Success(t)` and `Failure(e)`
  * Kinda like `Option` but can be used to wrap around third-party code throwing exceptions
  * Also it tells you why you fail
* Solution: `Either[FailureReason, T]`, `Left(FailureReason(s))`, `Right(t)`
  * `Option` doesn't tell you why you fail, and `Try` still relis on exceptions
  * But, `Either` is not biased(by convention, `Left` holds the error, `Right` holds the value) and it doesn't have `map` or `flatMap`
  * You have to use `Either#right` for projection
