## Stuff

### [More Ram](https://github.com/graphitemaster/moreram)

There is only [one C file](https://github.com/graphitemaster/moreram/blob/master/moreram.c), ~400 lines.

It's probably just a joke, as in the readme:

> There is no guarantee that the persistently mapped buffer technique actually references video memory. The worst case it's shadow memory and this actually wastes memory.

Even if the video memory is used, PCIe would be a serious bottleneck. And [there's a race condition in the constructor](https://www.reddit.com/r/programming/comments/4g7ew6/unlock_up_to_an_additional_4gb_of_system_ram/d2f6tg9)

Nevertheless, I'll just read it for fun :)

#### Construction

* Save the libc memory management functions into a bunch of function pointers
* Do some OpenGL initialization work, create an insible window to initialize the OpenGL context and then destroy the window. A mutex is created for the `gContext`.
* Save the GL functions into a bunch of function pointers
* Use a bitset to track the handles
* The space for handles is pre-allocated using `malloc`, since later calls to `glGenBuffers`(which uses `malloc`) could run out of memory
* The backing buffer is a `GL_ARRAY_BUFFER`, and is switched to a `GL_EXTERNAL_VIRTUAL_MEMORY_BUFFER_AMD` if the `GL_AMD_pinned_memory` extension is available

#### Destruction

* There is a mutex on the context during desrtuction
* Unmap the memory obtained with `glMapBuffer`, compiler barriers are used to make sure the linked list is iteratered in order
* Then the handles, the bitset, the context are destroyed, the mutex is released and destroyed

#### Overriding libc functions

* `malloc`, `free`, `realloc`, `calloc`
* It will attempt to use libc `malloc`/`calloc` first(when there's memory available)
* `malloc`
  * Lock the mutex first
  * Find a handle in the bitset, bind and map a `GL_MAP_COHERENT_BIT | GL_MAP_READ_BIT | GL_MAP_WRITE_BIT` buffer to it
  * Mark the handle as being used, update the linked list
  * If any of the steps above fails, release the mutex. If the buffer is mapped successfully, release the mutex.
  * Return
* `free`
  * Lock the mutex first
  * Search through the linked list to see if the memory pointed by the pointer is allocated using OpenGL. If it isn't, use libc `free` to free it.
  * If it is, bind it, remove it from the linked list, update the bitset, unmap the memory(use compiler barriers to avoid reordering)
  * Release the mutex before returning
* `realloc`
  * Lock the mutex first
  * Search through the linked list, use libc `realloc` if the pointer is not managed by moreram
  * If it is, check if the current memory size is large enough. If it is, just update the `size` and return
  * If the memory is not enough, allocate a new chunk of memory that is the size required, bind it, update the linked list and the bitset, `memcpy` the memory, unmap the old buffer(use compiler barriers to avoid reordering)
  * Release the mutex before returning
* `calloc`
  * It's rather trivial now that you have a `malloc` in place...still, attempt to use the libc version if possible
