## History

### [JSJ The Origin of Javascript with Brendan Eich](https://devchat.tv/js-jabber/124-jsj-the-origin-of-javascript-with-brendan-eich)

#### How JavaScript was proposed

* BE was recruited to do Scheme in the browser, but because of HC issues he was placed in the server team when he got into the company. By the time he was transferred to the client team, Sun and Netscape already had a deal to bring Java to the browser.
* So, they needed to demonstrate that this new thing wasn't redundant to Java. It could't be *Scheme in the browser*. It should be something complementary to Java, because the argument was that M$ had VB for C++ then, and Sun only had Java.
* They had to prove to people that embedding a scripting language in HTML was possible, and that this could be friendly to amateurs and could be done quickly enough to be shipped alongside Java in Netscape2

### The prototype

* Netscape was not designed to have a scripting language embeded into it e.g. when you navigate away, the memory for the page would be wiped out, so it would be much more complicated for a scripting language to extend the lifetime of the objects in the page
* People were doing amazing demos, e.g. spreadsheets or stuff like early-stage SPAs. They didn't have XHR back then, but they could do the syncing by using auto-submit forms/auto-click links in hidden iframes.
* Talked about a ridiculous bug in Netscape2 where nested tables are layouted in O(n^2) and the automatic array only had one valid element(in the end, the rest are thrownaways used for measuring layout)
* It's originally codenamed *Mocha* but some software company took it. Bill Joy in Sun signed the JavaScript trademark and liscenced it to Netscape.
* Looked into languages like Logo, Smalltalk, Self, HyperTalk, .etc.(no VB though)
* Self was a big influence
* The semicolon *correction* thing was a fling, but sadly once a thing is shipped to the Web, you can never take it back.

#### Standardization

* M$ put moral pressure on Netscape for not standardizing the language
* They went to Ecma partly because Ecma's record of having been sued by M$ and won the case
* There were people from IBM, M$, Netscape, Bortland. And Sun sent over Guy Steele and Gerry Sussman(inventors of Scheme). Guy also brought Richard Gabriel, who wrote Clause 3 of the standard.

#### Early APIs

* In Netscape2 there was only `setTimeout(str, ms)`, then in Netscape3 they added function as the first argument and putting the function arguments that will be passed to the function after `ms`
* M$ didn't want to play with Sun anymore and yanked Java from Windows. They needed a replacement for the Java async I/O class because Outlook Web Access needed it, so they hacked in **XHR**.
* The `getMonth` returning values started from 0 and `getFullYear` were all introduced because they ported Java's `java.util.Date` API.

#### Developement

* **There wasn't lexical scopes at first**(which Self has) because unlike Self, JavaScript had global objects and `with` in the way, and 10 days were certainly not enough to implement that. But functions were made first-class from the beginning, like Lisp.
* Since it was such a rush, he decided to make the language very **mutable** so people could patch it later.
* In late 96's he started to rewrite the VM and payed off technical debt(here came the SpiderMonkey). It's much faster than the original Mocha VM, had a GC and tagged values
* This rewrite gave him a lot more confidence in the standardization body, because JavaScript was based on the existing stuff(not a spec-first, implementation-second thing). He was all over the semantics after the rewrite so he could easily defeat anyone in the debates(there WERE wacky people trying to claim this language, LOL).
* They couldn't use the name JavaScript for the standard because Sun was being stupied back then(they even sued someone whose surname started with Java and got a website named after this)
* After the first meeting, M$, who sent the B-team at first, finally sent the A-team(Shon
Katzenberger)
* Guy Steele did a
fair amount of work and others contributed pieces, but Shon did the backbone and the main part of
the work
* The triple equal was added because it's too late(even in the 96's) to change the language.

#### ES4

* ES4 was an attempt by Macromedia and then Adobe which bought Macromedia to **standardize
the fork of JavaScript called ActionScrip** that they put in the Flash player
* AS1 was pretty much JavaScript. AS2 added a few more things.
* But AS3, implemented by Tarmarin, added stuff like classes, packages, namespaces, types, optional type annotations,
machine types. It's a response to the Java-trained developers in the Flex/Flash world of 2006/2007
* When BE started Mozilla and created Firefox, they rejoined Ecma as a non-for-profit group, and started to work with Macromedia to evolve JavaScript
* They also did E4X(ECMA-357), but it was not successful as a standard in the end. It's used as a lever to get M$ back in making new standards
* M$ did add classes, packages and namespaces to JScript .NET, but eventually backed off when it got serious about C#
* Macromedia wanted to have classes. DC wanted to get the bad stuff out(but it's impossible to break the Web), and Mozilla wanted to wake M$ up.
* By 2007 DC thought ES4 was too big and looked like Java(and it was overdesigned then). He wanted it to be small, simple, without the bad stuff. So he went and ally with M$
* M$ wanted to persue the ES3.1 thing, with less changes. DC could't remove the bad parts, so he lost interests. The Mozilla folk saw that this was viable as an intermediate step, so they accepted it.
* AWB said M$ was very close to start implement ES4 when Mozilla folded on it LOL
* If ES4 was passed, it would've been a mess. It's way too overdesigned, the dynamic type checks are done in runtime. A lot of it was just half-baked.
* It's difficult to bring a **sound** type system to JavaScript now because you'll break the old code(but I think it's possible via introducing a new mode, like SoundScript, though they've given up for now because it complicated the implementation).

#### Mozilla

* When Netscape was open sourced, the quality of the codde was really awful, so they decided to rewrite this. KHTML was started around the same time, but it was buggy. They developed Gecko based on the Raptor engine(first written in Java and then rewritten in C++), but that was buggy too.
* Netscape, acquired by AOL then, shipped the pre-mature 6 under the pressure of the mother ship and it was a disaster
* Mozilla started to ship binaries for testing machines that doesn't have compilers, and this started to be more like a product, whose users eventually outnumbered Netscape around 2002~2003.
* So they started to build their own browser and sheltered it from management.
* AOL laid everyone off later.
* Daniel Brockman's [Object-Oriented Event Listening through Partial Application in JavaScript](http://dbrock.github.io/method-references/) led people to rediscover JavaScript

#### Web Apps

* It's too early to standardize any of Angular, React, Ember, .etc.
* JSX resembles E4X, and could be done in sweet.js macros
* The power should be in the developers' hands
* JavaScript was not designed to build large-scale apps, so things like TypeScript do help with the checking and the tooling they provide.

#### Web v.s Native

* The Web isn't going anytime soon. Most large apps have a bunch of webviews anyway, because it's pointless to rewrite so much stuff in different native code.
* It's in everyone's interest who's not dominating
the web to uplift it. So Emscripten is a big deal.
* The number of web developers is larger than iOS and Android developers
* **It's wrong to think of the web as only the
lowest common denominator**. You want the web to be the best of the native.

