## Web

### [The future of loading CSS](https://jakearchibald.com/2016/link-in-body/)

#### The current best practice

* Load critical CSS synchronously for a fast first-render, then load the other styles asynchronously with JavaScript, and use `display: none` to hide the unstyled parts
* WebKit blocks rendering whenever a new `<link rel="stylesheet">` is added to the page(even with JS)
* Chrome currently follows WebKit's behavior, while FF and Edge handle the JS-loaded stylesheets asynchronously

#### Another way(with HTTP/2)

* Write `<link>` tags just before the content that needs them. The expected behavior is that those loading styles can block the rendering of the contents after them, but not the contents before them.
* The stylesheets will be loaded in parallel, but applied in series
* But you have to be careful when the content dictates layout(e.g. when using tables and flexboxes)

#### Does the second way work?

* FTR, the HTML spec doesn't specify anything about the CSS blocking the rendering, and it discourages `<link>` inside `<body>`. But all browsers handle this anyway.
* Chrome and Safari stop rendering when they encounter `<link>`, and won't start rendering until all encountered `<link>` is loaded. This could lead to unrendered content **above** the `<link>` tags being blocked - before the `<link>` above the content gets loaded, the browser discover another `<link>` tag below it in the HTML, so even when the first `<link>` is loaded, the rendereing can't be resumed because the second `<link>` is now loading. **The second way doesn't work**.
* Firefox blocks rendering before all `<link>` in the head are loaded. Then when it encounters `<link>` in the body, if the content is blocked by a loading `<link>` in the head, the blocking will be extended. Otherwise it won't be blocked, and the styles will be loaded asynchronously(resulting FOUC). **The second way works from time to time**(the FOUC and be avoided by putting an empty `<script>` tag just behind the `<link>` tag to block parsing).
* IE/Edge **blocks the parser** until the stylesheet loads, but allows content above the <link> to render. **The second way works**.
* Chrome is going to [align with the IE/Edge behavior](https://groups.google.com/a/chromium.org/forum/#!topic/blink-dev/ZAPP8aTnyn0).
