## JS

### Performance of ES5 getter/setter

I've been using Vue.js quite a lot lately so I'm wondering if ES5 getter/setter are performance killers...

Tried a few benchmarks and it seems that `defineProperty` is safer than `get`/`set` on object literals. They are slower than normal properties but most of the time the performance is still in the same magnitude.

#### Relevant links

* [Issue 1239: ES5 getter/setter performance](https://code.google.com/p/v8/issues/detail?id=1239)
* [Bug 626021 - ES5 getters/setters are ridiculously slow](https://bugzilla.mozilla.org/show_bug.cgi?id=626021)
* [speed of getter function vs direct access](http://stackoverflow.com/questions/18838514/speed-of-getter-function-vs-direct-access)

All in all, it's all about if the getters/setters are inlined or not. If they are inlined, the performance won't be too far away from normal property definition. If they are not, it all depends on the context. I don't think those getters and setters created by data-binding frameworks will be simple enough to be inlined easily, nor do I think they wouldn't have a significant performance impact, but sacrifice this amount of performance for the powerful functionalities we want is still a fair trade. As long as these getters and setters are not called that frequently(like in each frame of an animation), they are not likely to be the performance bottleneck.

I've noticed that the data-binding setup by Vue does cause some performance hits in my project(by looking at the CPU profile after notice the jagging during CSS animation), but I believe this problem is solvable since it's caused by *unnecessary* data-bindings that Vue setup for me. All I need to do is find a way to tell Vue to stop watching objects in my arrays(instead, just watch the arrays themselves). `track-by` is not meant for this since the watching is setup via the shared store pattern, not the data-binding to the DOM. I've dug through the documentation(and used Google)but didn't find anything useful. Well...maybe it does exists and it's only me missing that one link I need...
