## Angular

### [AngularJS’ Internals In Depth, Part 2](http://www.smashingmagazine.com/2015/11/angularjs-internals-in-depth-part-2/)

#### Directivess

* `Restrict`: don't ever use 'C' or 'M'
* **Singleton socpe**: leaving the scope chain untouched with `scope: false` is not very common. Some use cases are:
  * The directive doesn't interact with the scope -- but that's rare since directives are meant to interact with the DOM, so most of the time it also need the data in the scope
  * The directive is a singleton in the current scope and only interact with the property associated with its own name(`scope.directiveName`)
* Use `scope: true` to create a **child scope**
  * If multiple directives on the same element request a new scope, then only one new scope is created
* **Isolated scope**: `scope: {}`
  * Kinda like a child scope but doesn't inherit from its parent(`scope.$parent` is still available though)


#### Wired shorthands for directive scope definitions

* `@`(**observing attributes**):

  ```javascript
  {
    scope: {
      note: '@'
    }
  }
  ```

  is the same as

  ```javascript
  {
    scope: {},
    link: function (scope, element, attrs) {
      attrs.$observe('note', function (value) {
        scope.note = value;
      });
    }
  }
  ```

  But you can only bind to that property as-is. To make some changes(like `scope.note = value + 1`) you will have to choose the second one.
* `&`(**parsing attributes**):

  ```javascript
  {
    scope: {
      note: '&'
    }
  }
  ```

  is the same as

  ```javascript
  {
    scope: {},
    link: function (scope, element, attrs) {
      var parentGet = $parse(attrs.note);

      scope.note = function (locals) {
        return parentGet(scope.$parent, locals);
      };
    }
  }
  ```

  it will parse the expression first, then query the parent scope(read-only). You can watch `note()` so when the parent scope changes, you will get the new output.
* `=`(two-way binding):

  Changing `scope.props` then call `scope.$apply()` will overwrite the variable passed down from the parent scope(can be achieved with  some logic to determine if the propery is changed in `$watch` and things like `$parse(attrs.countable).assign` to propagate the changes upward).

#### Templates

* Linking functions doesn't need dependency injection. It has a static, documented parameter list that you can't change.
* Compiling functions and linking functions don't necessarily have the same DOM node, so **put your listener regisration code in the post-link functions**
* Avoid altering the DOM in compiling functions as possible. Prefer linking functions, specifically, post-linking functions. If inevitable, add contents/nodes in pre-linking functions, then add listeners/bindings in the post-linking functions.
* You can use `controller` to talk to other directives in the same scope
* `transclude`: kinda like `slot`s in Web Components. Using `ng-transclude` in the directive template you can access HTML code that's passed down by the consumer. Data bindings in that HTML code will respond against the parent's scope, which is pretty neat :)