## SVG

### Make a donut chart with padding

1. Use `d3.layout.pie` with `padAngle`
2. Use other layout that can produce a donut chart, and set `stroke` and `stroke-width`(the `fill` is what make up the arc, the strokes are the borders of the arc)

## Frontend

### [Tradeoffs in server side and client side rendering](https://medium.com/google-developers/tradeoffs-in-server-side-and-client-side-rendering-14dad8d4ff8b)

* If you do server side rendering like React does(using the same data and the same templates to render at the server and then at the client), then for interactivity, things like event handler registration code would still have to be there -> what's the benefit then?
* You need to **duplicate** the data fetching logic and other code. 
* More testing(duh)
* You don't have informations like the resolution of the screen at the server. There are times when you still have to use that info to change your layout because CSS is not that powerful.
* When your server-side rendering fails, the information left to be displayed to the user is very limited. Whilst in client-side rendering, you can retry and give more feedbacks to them.
* Updates to the page is harder to do on the server side. The compatibility problems will eventually come back to bite you
* What doesn't benefit from server-side rendering
  * Intranet software
  * Tools
  * *Information and Business Systems*. People don't load it often but they do use it for hours.
  * Hybrid apps
* What does benefit from it
  * Content publishing sites, UGC sites
  