## [The state of Web Components](https://hacks.mozilla.org/2015/06/the-state-of-web-components/)

### State of implementation

1. The initial API is high-level, complex, hard to implement
2. Google is pushing
3. M$ is working on Edge. Doesn't have much time to implement new APIs.
4. Apple is working on something else
5. Polyfills are not good enough

### Custom Elements - How to Create Them

#### 1. Upgrade

Uses `prototype` and `createdCallback`.

```javascript
var proto = Object.create(HTMLElement.prototype);
proto.createdCallback = function() { ... };
document.registerElement('my-element', { prototype: proto });
```

#### 2. Dmitry

Uses ES6 class `extends` and `createdCallback`.

Elements begining its life as `HTMLUnknownElement`, then its `prototype` gets swapped and `createdCallback` called.

```javascript
class MyElement extends HTMLElement {
  createdCallback() { ... }
}

document.registerElement("my-element", MyElement);
```

#### 3. Synchronous constructor

Uses ES6 class `extends` and `constructor`.

```javascript
class MyElement extends HTMLElement {
  constructor() { ... }
}

document.registerElement("my-element", MyElement);
```

Problem:

1. If `registerElement` definition is loaded asynchronously, elements created previously will fail to upgrade.
2. `.cloneNode()` [issues](https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-webapps/2015JanMar/0731.html)

#### 4. `is=""`

Declare it in the HTML.

```html
<input type="text" is="my-element">
```

Pros:

1. Can extend some unexposed built-in features
  * Accessibility
  * `<form>`, `<template>`
2. Progressive enhancement

Cons:

1. Confusing syntax
2. You can't just avoid the problem(accessibility, built-in feature)
3. Shadow DOM makes the built-in goodies go away

Consensus:

* `is` is a **wart** in the spec :p
* Google: implemented, serve as a stop-gap
* Mozilla and Apple: ignore it in V1, wait to get the problem solved in V2.

### Shadow DOM - Distribution

Most disagreed. Split into V1 and V2.

Distribution: project the children of a shadow host into slots inside the host’s Shadow DOM.

#### 1. Current API

Declarative:

```html
<content select="header"></content>
```

Apple and Microsoft are against it due to complexity and performance issues.

#### 2. A new Imperative API

Deadline: July 2015 for Microsoft, Google, Apple and Mozilla.

Critical problem: timing for distribution on mutation observer callback

#### 3. A new Declarative API - 'Named Slots'

Explicitly label the content with the slot to distributed into.

Shadow Root of <x-page>:

```html
<slot name="header"></slot>
<slot></slot>
<slot name="footer"></slot>
<div>some shadow content</div>
```

Usage of <x-page>:

```html
<x-page>
  <header slot="header">header</header>
  <footer slot="footer">footer</footer>
  <h1>my page title</h1>
  <p>my page content<p>
</x-page>
```

Composed/rendered tree (what the user sees):

```html
<x-page>
  <header slot="header">header</header>
  <h1>my page title</h1>
  <p>my page content<p>
  <footer slot="footer">footer</footer>
  <div>some shadow content</div>
</x-page>
```

Pros:

1. Easier to understand
2. Simpler to implement

Cons:

1. Built-in elements `<select>` doesn't get explained by this
2. More work for the user
3. Less expressive

...To be continued

### Something I tried today

1. If you make the skybox big enough, you won't notice the unnatural edges
2. Set the far clippling plane further if you see some weird black regions when extending the scene.
3. `staticfile.org` doesn't offer https service...
