## Tools

### [pdfmake: Client/server side PDF printing in pure JavaScript](http://pdfmake.org/)

Maybe I can use it for my resume generator...hmmm...

## Design

### [Practical Techniques On Designing Animation](http://www.smashingmagazine.com/2015/06/08/practical-techniques-on-designing-animation/?utm_source=CSS-Weekly&utm_campaign=Issue-166&utm_medium=RSS)

Read this later.

## CSS

### [The Making Of “In Pieces”: Designing an Interactive Exhibition With CSS Clip Paths](http://www.smashingmagazine.com/2015/06/02/the-making-of-in-pieces/?utm_source=CSS-Weekly&utm_campaign=Issue-166&utm_medium=RSS)

#### Animations
* Use CSS class names of the parent div to change species.
* Species names are kept inside an array.
  * Change of species involve finding the next index in that array
  * Use the difference of index to determine the direction of the transition(left-to-right or right-to-left), and add an extra class for it
* Use SASS for loops to generate a bunch of transitions(30 steps)
* Repetition of the animation is controlled by JS(`setInterval` combined with `setTimeout`) rather than CSS to avoid abrupt "cuts".
* Each one has multiple sets of animations(e.g. eyes and vocal sac of the frog), they are controlled independently.
* "Shimmering" is done by adding pseudo-elements(`::before` with 100% width and height) to every shard and change their background color opacity(between`rgba(255, 255, 255, 0)` and `rgba(255, 255, 255, 1)`) periodically.
  * These 100% width and height pseudo-elements will be masked to the same shape as their parents

#### Bugs

* `clip-path` doesn't like being overlapped with elements transitioning between opacity values
* `transform`s don't like it too. The solution is to create a big parent div to do the scaling/translation/rotation. Don't transform the polygons directly
* Retina screens and Safari chokes on overlapping opacity. That's why only non-retina Chromes get the vignette around the species.

#### Performance

* Don't move 30 polygons at the same time. Use delay to move them in chains(that's when the for loops in SASS come to rescue).
* On PC, transitions are made faster to prevent overlap

To be continued...